# kernel-density-estimation
Codes to optimally interpolate/extrapolate continuous density functions (1-d) from data

These matlab codes are used to create figures in the paper "Nonparametric, data-based kernel interpolation for particle-tracking simulations and kernel density estimation" by D. A. Benson, D. Bolster, S. Pankavich, and M. J. Schmidt (submitted).

The main code to run in matlab is called "BTC_smoother_DB_2.m".  This main program calls the subroutine "FT_h.m" to estimate the global bandwidth from data.  The main code then iteratively interpolates the density using kernels that are scaled copies of the interploated density itself.  Details are in the preprint in ArXiv.  There are a number of options within the code to generate data from many known distributions and do the interpolations using either Gaussian kernels or the new data-based kernels.  One may also choose to read a file with random data.  One such file is provided from the paper called "BTC_50000", which are random particle arrival times. Any questions about options in the code may be submitted to dbenson@mines.edu.

Other associated codes are included here that were used to make other figures in the paper.  The first is "BTC_smoother_mod_Pedretti.m" which implements Pedretti et al.'s kernel density estimator with an added modification: we iteratively recalcualte h_0 using Silverman's Taylor series estimate that uses the density's integrated second derivative.  We calculate this via finite differences using the current density estimate, then use the new h_0 to re-calculate the density estimate ... ad nauseum ... until convergence.  We include several data files from the same particle tracking simulation but with 500, 5000, and 50000 data points.

Also included are "Fourier_test_eps.m", which estimates h_0 based on a Fourier transform of data.  THis is done for an ensemble of data replicates and user-defined distributions.  The "h_v_n.m" code calculates the h_0 for various values of n from 10 t0 10^6 and different assumptions discussed in the paper and plots results.
